Add Sentry ASP.NET Core tracing docs (#3121)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/dotnet/guides/aspnetcore/performance/included-instrumentation.mdx

        app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
        {
            endpoints.MapControllerRoute(
                name: "default",
                pattern: "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
        });
    }
}
```

Transaction names follow the pattern `<HTTP method> <Route>`; for example, a request to the following action will create a transaction named `GET /person/{id}`:

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;

public class HomeController : Controller
{
    [HttpGet("/person/{id}")]
    public IActionResult Person(string id) { /* ... */ }
}
```

Transactions created by this integration are automatically added to the current scope. If you want to start your own spans from the automatically created transaction, you can use the following approach:

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Sentry;

public class HomeController : Controller
{
    private readonly IHub _sentryHub;

    public HomeController(IHub sentryHub) => _sentryHub = sentryHub;

    [HttpGet("/person/{id}")]
    public IActionResult Person(string id)
    {
        var childSpan = _sentryHub.GetSpan()?.StartChild("additional-work");

> 		try
> 		{
> 			// Do the work that gets measured.
> 			
>             childSpan?.Finish(SpanStatus.Ok);
> 		}
> 		catch (Exception e)
> 		{
> 	        childSpan?.Finish(SpanStatus.InternalError);
> 	        throw;
> 		}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        try
        {
            // Do the work that gets measured.
            
            childSpan?.Finish(SpanStatus.Ok);
        }
        catch (Exception e)
        {
            childSpan?.Finish(SpanStatus.InternalError);
            throw;
        }
```

public class HomeController : Controller
{
    [HttpGet("/person/{id}")]
    public IActionResult Person(string id) { /* ... */ }
}
```

Transactions created by this integration are automatically added to the current scope. If you want to start your own spans from the automatically created transaction, you can use the following approach:

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Sentry;

public class HomeController : Controller
{
    private readonly IHub _sentryHub;

    public HomeController(IHub sentryHub) => _sentryHub = sentryHub;

    [HttpGet("/person/{id}")]
    public IActionResult Person(string id)
    {
        // Get the last non-finished span (or transaction).
        // This can generally be null, but since the root transaction
        // is set automatically by the middleware, we can expect it
        // to always be defined.
        var currentSpan = hub.GetSpan();

        // We can then start our own spans which will be attached to
        // the automatically created transaction.
        var childSpan = currentSpan?.StartChild("additional-work");

        // ...

        childSpan?.Finish();

>         // Note: don't call `currentSpan.Finish()` here as it may prematurely

Reviewer: This is surprising to me to be honest. Maybe we shouldn't make the transctio available through `hub.GetSpan()` then?

Should we just have `hub.StartChild` then?

Author: Perhaps. I raised this concern earlier when we were discussing adding `GetSpan()`.
It can have even more severe conflicts if you consider the HTTP client factory filter that starts spans off of HTTP requests.

Reviewer: At least for the docs lets remove that for now, keeping just StartChild.
We need to revisit this Transaction API stuff anyway

Author: Do you mean remove the comment or the entire section explaining `GetSpan()`?

Reviewer: Yeah remove `GetSpan`. Just leave `StartChild()` so they can create child spans

Author: I'm confused, are we talking about the docs or the library API?
There is no `StartChild()` in the API, only `GetSpan()`.

Reviewer: Let's review the api before we merge this

>         // Get the last non-finished span (or transaction).
>         // This can generally be null, but since the root transaction
>         // is set automatically by the middleware, we can expect it
>         // to always be defined.
>         var currentSpan = _sentryHub.GetSpan();
> 
>         // We can then start our own spans which will be attached to
>         // the automatically created transaction.
>         var childSpan = currentSpan?.StartChild("additional-work");
> 
>         // ...
> 
>         childSpan?.Finish();
> 
>         // Note: don't call `currentSpan.Finish()` here as it may prematurely
>         // finish the root transaction and send it to Sentry before the
>         // request has fully completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        var childSpan = _sentryHub.GetSpan()?.StartChild("additional-work");
		try
		{
			// Do the work that gets measured.
			
            childSpan?.Finish(SpanStatus.Ok);
		}
		catch (Exception e)
		{
	        childSpan?.Finish(SpanStatus.InternalError);
	        throw;
		}
```

    }
}
```

### HTTP Client Integration

Sentry also provides a custom filter for HTTP client factory commonly used in ASP.NET Core applications. This filter adds an additional message handler that automatically injects Sentry's trace header and tracks outgoing HTTP requests in separate spans attached to the current transaction.

To enable this integration, you need to have HTTP client factory enabled within your application:

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Routing;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;

public class Startup
{
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        /* ... */

        services.AddRouting();

        // This is required for HTTP client integration
        services.AddHttpClient();
    }
}
```

> If you already have `AddHttpClient()` in your service collection (which is likely the case), then no action is required.

Reviewer: Should we document how to use the `HttpMessageHandler`? 
I guess that could be part of the core .NET SDK anyway

Author: Yeah. I'm not sure where to put it exactly. Do you have a suggestion?

Reviewer: Another `Included Instrumentation` section like this one, but on the main dotnet level.

We could name it: `Propagating a trace`.

And add a note like:

> If you are using ASP.NET Core integration this is done automatically. Check the Included Insrumentation docs for ASP.NET Core

Author: Can I create an issue in this repo so I don't forget?

Reviewer: I'll add u to this repo wait up

---
title: Included Instrumentation
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn what transactions are captured after tracing is enabled."
---

> <Note>
> 
> Capturing transactions requires that you first <PlatformLink to="/performance/">set up performance monitoring</PlatformLink> if you haven't already.
> 
> </Note>
> 
> <Note>
> 
> This guide assumes you have already enabled the <PlatformLink to="/">base Sentry integration for ASP.NET Core</PlatformLink>.
> 
> </Note>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Note>

Capturing transactions requires that you first <PlatformLink to="/performance/">set up performance monitoring</PlatformLink> if you haven't already. You'll also need to enable the <PlatformLink to="/">base Sentry integration for ASP.NET Core</PlatformLink>.

</Note>
```

> ### Server integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Server Integration
```

> ASP.NET Core integration, once enabled, captures each incoming HTTP request and turns it into a transaction with the help of a custom middleware. In order to enable tracing on ASP.NET Core, you need to update your pipeline configuration to include a call to `UseSentryTracing()`, like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Core integration, once enabled, captures each incoming HTTP request and turns it into a transaction with the help of a custom middleware. To enable tracing on ASP.NET Core, you need to update your pipeline configuration to include a call to `UseSentryTracing()`:
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
using Sentry.AspNetCore;

public class Startup
{
    /* ... */

    public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
    {
        if (env.IsDevelopment())
        {
            app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
        }
        else
        {
            app.UseExceptionHandler("/Home/Error");
            app.UseHsts();
        }

        app.UseHttpsRedirection();
        app.UseStaticFiles();

        app.UseRouting();

        // Enable automatic tracing integration.
        // Make sure to put this middleware right after `UseRouting()`.
        app.UseSentryTracing();

        app.UseAuthorization();

        app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
        {
            endpoints.MapControllerRoute(
                name: "default",
                pattern: "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
        });
    }
}
```

> Transaction names follow the pattern `<HTTP method> <Route>`, for example for a request to the following action will create a transaction named `GET /person/{id}`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transaction names follow the pattern `<HTTP method> <Route>`; for example, a request to the following action will create a transaction named `GET /person/{id}`:
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;

public class HomeController : Controller
{
    [HttpGet("/person/{id}")]
    public IActionResult Person(string id) { /* ... */ }
}
```

> Transactions created by this integration are automatically added to the current scope. If you want to start your own spans from the automatically created transaction, you use the following approach:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transactions created by this integration are automatically added to the current scope. If you want to start your own spans from the automatically created transaction, you can use the following approach:
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Sentry;

public class HomeController : Controller
{
    private readonly IHub _sentryHub;

    public HomeController(IHub sentryHub) => _sentryHub = sentryHub;

    [HttpGet("/person/{id}")]
    public IActionResult Person(string id)
    {
        // Get the last non-finished span (or transaction).
        // This can generally be null, but since the root transaction
        // is set automatically by the middleware, we can expect it
        // to always be defined.
        var currentSpan = hub.GetSpan();

        // We can then start our own spans which will be attached to
        // the automatically created transaction.
        var childSpan = currentSpan?.StartChild("additional-work");

        // ...

        childSpan?.Finish();

        // Note: don't call `currentSpan.Finish()` here as it may prematurely
        // finish the root transaction and send it to Sentry before the
        // request has fully completed.
    }
}
```

> ### HTTP client integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HTTP Client Integration
```

Sentry also provides a custom filter for HTTP client factory commonly used in ASP.NET Core applications. This filter adds an additional message handler that automatically injects Sentry's trace header and tracks outgoing HTTP requests in separate spans attached to the current transaction.

> In order to enable this integration, you need to have HTTP client factory enabled within your application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable this integration, you need to have HTTP client factory enabled within your application:
```
